Naming conventions (#331)
akeneo/pim-api-docs: content/concepts/asset-manager.md

::: panel-link Want more details about the asset family resource? [Check its endpoints here!](/api-reference.html#Assetfamily)
:::

## Focus on the naming convention

> We noticed that you, our precious customers, usually name their asset files or asset codes using precious information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We noticed that you, our precious customers 🥰, usually name their asset files or asset codes using precious information:
```

The `channel` property should be set to `null` if:
- `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is equal to _"code"_,
- `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is equal to the code of the main media attribute and this one is not scopable.  
:::

### The split pattern

The `pattern` property allows you to define how the PIM should split the [source string](#the-source-string). Then, the result of the split will automatically populate the corresponding asset attributes.

The split pattern should be a string. It should be given as a regular expression.  
In order for the PIM to know into which asset attributes the result of the split should be sent, this regular expression should contain one or several named capture groups and the names of these capture groups should be existing asset attribute codes of the family.

::: tips
Not comfortable with regular expressions? You can try yours [right here](https://regex101.com/)!
:::

Let's take an example to make this clearer! 
```regexp
/(?P<product_ref>.*)-.*-(?P<attribute_ref>.*)\.jpg/
```
The regexp above will split the source string in 3 parts, thanks to 2 named capture groups:

> - `(?P<product_ref>.*)` is the first capture group. It is named `product_ref`. So, the result of this capture will be sent into the `product_ref` asset attribute. The `product_ref` attribute should exist in the asset family.

Reviewer 2: Should we say that attributes should be not localizable neither scopable?

Author: Yas, definitely!

Author: Done!

::: panel-link Want more details about the asset family resource? [Check its endpoints here!](/api-reference.html#Assetfamily)
:::

## Focus on the naming convention

> We noticed that you, our precious customers 🥰, usually name your asset files or asset codes using precious information:

Author: ```suggestion
We noticed that you, our dear customers 🥰, usually name your asset files or asset codes using precious information:
```

> We noticed that you, our precious customers 🥰, usually name their asset files or asset codes using precious information:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We noticed that you, our precious customers 🥰, usually name your asset files or asset codes using precious information:
```

- the SKU of the product corresponding to the asset,
- the locale into which your user guides are translated,

> - the picture type: _Is it a frontview, backview,...?_,

Reviewer 3: je ne parlerais pas de picture (ça peut être autre chose qu'une image). Et du coup je n'utiliserais pas le terme "type" non plus qui peut être confondu avec .jpg, .png... Peut-être parler de "fonction"?

Author: ```suggestion
- the asset function: _Is it a frontview, backview,...?_,
```

- ...

The idea of the naming convention feature is to be able to extract those information and use them to automatically enrich your assets with new attributes.

> By defining a naming convention, for each [asset family](#the-asset-family), the PIM will be able to split the asset code or the main media filename, in order to extract the information you want and populate asset attributes with these ones.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By defining a naming convention, for each [asset family](#the-asset-family), the PIM will be able to split the asset code or the main media filename, in order to extract the information you want and populate asset attributes with it.  
```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
By defining a naming convention, for each [asset family](#the-asset-family), the PIM will be able to split the asset code or the main media filename, in order to extract the information you want and use it to populate asset attributes.
```

This operation is done automatically by the PIM upon each asset creation.

::: info
This naming convention is defined at the [asset family](#the-asset-family) level.
:::

::: tips

> The naming convention is perfect to automatically populate the asset attributes that will be then used by the [product link rule](#focus-on-the-product-link-rule). :wink:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The naming convention is perfect to automatically populate the asset attributes that will then be used by the [product link rule](#focus-on-the-product-link-rule). :wink:
```

:::

> The JSON format of the naming convention is composed of several parts:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The JSON format of the naming convention contains of several parts:
```

Author: ```suggestion
The JSON format of the naming convention is contains several parts:
```

    "pattern": A_REGEXP,
    "abort_asset_creation_on_error": A_BOOLEAN
  }
}
```

#### Examples
```json
{
  "naming_convention": {
    "source": {
        "property": "main_asset_image",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
    },
    "pattern": "/(?P<product_ref>.*)-.*-(?P<attribute_ref>.*)\.jpg/",
    "abort_asset_creation_on_error": true
  }
}
```

Still not comfortable with the naming convention? Don't hesitate to go through the next sections where we detail each part of the naming convention format.

### The source string

The `source` property allows you to define on which string the split will be applied. It can be either:
- the asset code,
- the code of the main media attribute of your family.

It follows this format:
```json
{
  "source": {
    "property": CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE,
    "locale": SOURCE_LOCALE_CODE,
    "channel": SOURCE_CHANNEL_CODE
  },...
}
```

In this formula:
 - `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` can be either:
     + the _"code"_ string: when you want the asset code to be used as the source string,
     + the code of the main media asset attribute of the family: when you want the filename of the main media to be used as the source string.

>  - `SOURCE_LOCALE_CODE` is an existing locale code when `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is the code of to the main media asset attribute of the family and this one is localizable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - `SOURCE_LOCALE_CODE` is an existing locale code when `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is the code of the main media asset attribute of the family and this one is localizable.
```

>  - `SOURCE_CHANNEL_CODE` is an existing channel code when `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is the code of to the main media asset attribute of the family and this one is scopable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - `SOURCE_CHANNEL_CODE` is an existing channel code when `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is the code of the main media asset attribute of the family and this one is scopable.
```

::: warning
The `property`, `locale` and `channel` properties are mandatory.  
The `locale` property should be set to `null` if:
- `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is equal to _"code"_,
- `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is equal to the code of the main media attribute and this one is not localizable.  
The `channel` property should be set to `null` if:
- `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is equal to _"code"_,
- `CODE_OR_ATTRIBUTE_CODE` is equal to the code of the main media attribute and this one is not scopable.  
:::

### The split pattern

The `pattern` property allows you to define how the PIM should split the [source string](#the-source-string). Then, the result of the split will automatically populate the corresponding asset attributes.

The split pattern should be a string. It should be given as a regular expression.  

> In order for the PIM to know into which asset attributes the result of the split should be sent, this regular expression should contain one or several named capture groups and the names of these capture groups should be existing asset attribute codes of the family.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In order for the PIM to know into which asset attributes the result of the split should be sent, this regular expression should contain one or several named capture groups and the names of these capture groups should be the existing asset attribute codes of the family.
```

Author: Not necessarily all the attributes, but just some.

Author: I rephrased anyway. I'll merge. We can change this later if needed.

> In order for the PIM to know into which asset attributes the result of the split should be sent, this regular expression should contain one or several named capture groups and the names of these capture groups should be existing asset attribute codes of the family.

Reviewer 3: into which asset "attribute"? au singulier, non?

Author: No, I'd say there are several attributes here.

::: warning
These asset attributes cannot be localizable neither scopable.
:::

::: tips
Not comfortable with regular expressions? You can try yours [right here](https://regex101.com/)!
:::

Let's take an example to make this clearer! 
```regexp
/(?P<product_ref>.*)-.*-(?P<attribute_ref>.*)\.jpg/
```

> The regexp above will split the source string in 3 parts, thanks to 2 named capture groups:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The regexp above will split the source string into three parts, thanks to two named capture groups:
```

- `(?P<product_ref>.*)` is the first capture group. It is named `product_ref`. So, the result of this capture will be sent into the `product_ref` asset attribute. The `product_ref` attribute should exist in the asset family.

> - `(?P<attribute_ref>.*)` is the second capture group. It is named `attribute_ref`. So, the result of this capture will be sent into the `attribute_ref` asset attribute. The `attribute_ref` attribute should exist in the asset family.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `(?P<attribute_ref>.*)` is the second capture group. It is named `attribute_ref`. So, the result of this capture will be sent to the `attribute_ref` asset attribute. The `attribute_ref` attribute should exist in the asset family.
```

Let's say our source string is equal to `allie_jean-picture-packshot.png`. After the naming convention application, the `product_ref` asset attribute will contain the value "allie_jean" and the `attribute_ref` asset attribute will contain the value "packshot". 

### Abortion on error

> Sometimes, the application of the naming convention will fail. For example, if the regular expression did not capture any group. In this case, you can choose if you still want the corresponding asset to be created. As a result, the asset won't be created and you will be able to re-submit it with a better filename/code for example.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Sometimes, the application of the naming convention will fail. For example, it is the case if the regular expression did not capture any group. In this case, you can choose if you still want the corresponding asset to be created. As a result, the asset won't be created and you will be able to submit it again with a better filename/code for example.
```

To allow this behavior, set the `abort_asset_creation_on_error` to `true`.

> If you want the asset the be created even if the naming convention application failed, set the property to `false`.

Reviewer 3: the asset to be
```suggestion
If you want the asset to be created even if the naming convention application failed, set the property to `false`.
```

```

As a prerequisite for this rule to work, we would need two new attributes in the structure of our `user_instructions` asset family. One named `product_ref`, and the other `locale`.  
In our example, for our `XMLD500_fr_FR_user_guide` asset, we would store the string `XMLD500` into the `product ref` attribute and `fr_FR` in the `locale` attribute.

::: tips

> To populate the `product_ref` and `locale` attributes, you have three choices:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To populate the `product_ref` and `locale` attributes, you have three options:
```

> - enrich those information by hand in the PIM interface,

Reviewer 4: this information / those pieces of information (information is uncountable)

> - enrich those information by hand in the PIM interface,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- enrich that information manually in the PIM interface,
```

- in the case you have a connector creating assets in the PIM, you can code this step directly in your connector,

> - or since the v4.0, you can use the naming convention feature if these information are already stored in your asset code or in the filename of your main media file. :wink: Eager to know more? Take a look at the [naming convention focus section](#focus-on-the-naming-convention).

Reviewer 4: same

> - or since the v4.0, you can use the naming convention feature if these information are already stored in your asset code or in the filename of your main media file. :wink: Eager to know more? Take a look at the [naming convention focus section](#focus-on-the-naming-convention).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- or since the v4.0, you can use the naming convention feature if the information is already stored in your asset code or in the filename of your main media file. :wink: Eager to know more? Take a look at the [naming convention focus section](#focus-on-the-naming-convention).
```

}
```

> So, now that our asset is ready, whenever the rule is launched, the PIM will automatically extrapolate the rule, by replacing the curlies reference, `{{product_ref}}` and `{{locale}}`, by their real values in the asset it's currently trying to link to products.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
So, now that our asset is ready, whenever the rule is launched, the PIM will automatically extrapolate the rule. It will replace the curlies reference, `{{product_ref}}` and `{{locale}}` by their actual values in the asset it's currently trying to link to products.
```
